.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.TH DMDFMT 1 "EXPTOOLS - DMD"
.SH NAME
dmdfmt \- bitmap formatter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I dmdfmt 
[-T printer type]
[ infile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Dmdfmt
formats bitmap images for output on various printers.
.I Dmdfmt
accepts as input an encoded file as created by
.I dmdps,
and
.I brush.  
.I Dmdfmt 
knows about the following printer types:
.TP
.BI dots 
Line printer format (dots and spaces.)
.TP
.BI 450
Diablo 450 format.
.TP
.BI hex
Hex format.
.TP
.BI printronix
Printronix format.
.TP
.BI qms
QMS Lasergraphics format.
.TP
.BI ci8510b
C.Itoh 8510B format.
.TP
.BI fx-80
Epson FX-80 format.
.TP
.BI laserjet
Hewlett Packard 2686A (LaserJet) format.
.TP
.BI hpink
Hewlett Packard 2225C (ThinkJet) format.
.TP
.BI i300
Imagen Impress format (default.)
.sp
.SH "EXAMPLES"
dmdscale -h3 -w3 BLITMAP | dmdfmt -Ti300 | i300 -l impress -d ihXXX
.sp
The above command will format the bits contained in BLITMAP for
output on the Imagen 8/300 at rje destination ihXXX.
.PP
cat layerx | dmdfmt -T qms | qpr -q
.sp
The above command will format the bits for output on a QMS Lasergraphics
printer.
.PP
dmdfmt -T dots BLITMAP
.sp
The above command will output to your terminal the bitmap contained in
BLITMAP in a spaces and dot format.
.SH "WARNING"
The Hewlett Packard LaserJet can only print about 1/2 a screen before
running out of memory. 
.SH "BUGS"
dmdfmt doesn't use the same bitmap formatting code or printer formatting 
description (pfd) files that dmdps does.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "layers(1), dmdrot90(1), dmdscale(1), dmdps(1), dmdpr(1)."
