.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
'\" t
.fp 2 CW
.lg 0
.TH DMDPS 1 "EXPTOOLS - DMD"
.SH NAME
dmdps \- graphics/text printer support for Teletype 5620 DMD
and 630 MTG terminals 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I dmdps
{-T printer type}
[\fB-P\fP]
[\fB-7\fP | \fB-8\fP]
[\fB-9600\fP | \fB-4800\fP | \fB-1200\fP]
[\fB-f\fP file name]
[\fB-c\fP pipe command]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Dmdps 
is a layers based program that runs under 
.I jx
to provide general support for text and bitmap output
on 5620 DMD and 630 MTG terminals. 
When 
.I dmdps
is called, it loads itself into the terminal, and it waits for the user to
select a bitmap or for input to be supplied via the 
.I dmdpr
command. 
The available bitmap sources are found on the button 3 menu:
.sp
.TS
center, box;
lF2.
read bitmap
choose layer
whole screen
sweep rectangle
.TE
.in +.5i
.ll -.5i
.sp
Selecting 
.I "read bitmap"
will read the source bitmap from a host file.
You will be prompted for the name of the file.
.sp
Selecting 
.I "choose layer"
will change the mouse icon to the target icon, 
and you will be asked to point at the layer
to print and to click button 3. 
.sp
Selecting 
.I "whole screen"
will select the whole screen. 
.sp
Selecting 
.I "sweep rectangle"
will change the mouse icon to the
box cursor, and you will be asked to sweep a rectangle around
the area to print.
.ll +.5i
.in -.5i
.sp
.PP
In the 
.I dmdps
layer, you can tell what button does what by 
looking at the graphical display running across the top
of the layer. 
The leftmost box is used to indicate the
function of button 1; the middle box, the function of button 2; and the third
box over indicates button 3 function. 
Icons representing button actions/functions appear in these boxes.
The two other boxes send line feeds or form feeds to the printer 
port when button 1 is pressed while being positioned over them. 
The bottom of the 
.I dmdps
layer is a text display line that shows prompts and all typed input. 
The middle portion of the layer shows the selected bitmap.
.PP
When you successfully select a bitmap, it is displayed in the
.I dmdps 
layer.
You can then perform an image operation on the bitmap (bttn3), 
or output the bitmap (bttn2).
Here are the possible contents of the button 2 output and the
button 3 image operations menus:
.sp
.TS
center;
| lF2 | lF2 | lF2 |.
_		_
write bitmap		options...
pipe  bitmap		make a copy
[ print bitmap ]		flip stipple 
		reverse video
		inset rectangle
		[ run / halt ]
_		_
.TE
.in +.5i
.ll -.5i
.sp
The 
.I "print bitmap"
option will format and print the selected bitmap on
the DMD-attached printer.
If the "hex debug dump" flag is turned set,
a hex dump of the formatted output is produced for debugging 
purposes. This will only appear if a printer name was provided
on the command line.
.sp
The 
.I "pipe bitmap"
option will present a shell pipeline which
can be edited by backspacing and typing, or used as is by 
pressing button 3. The pipeline will be fed a run
encoded bitmap image. 
.sp
The 
.I "write bitmap"
operation works just like 
.I "pipe bitmap"
does, except that it writes the encoded bitmap to a host file.
.sp
The 
.I option... 
selection causes the button 2 menu to be temporarily replaced
by an options menu.
.sp
The
.I "make a copy"
operation clones the selected image in off-screen memory, if possible.
.sp
The
.I "flip stipple"
operation flips any stipples in the selected bitmap.
Stipples were used in early versions of the 5620 DMD software
to indicate non-current layers.
.sp
The
.I "reverse video"
operation reverses the video of the selected bitmap.
.sp
Every selection of the
.I "inset rectangle"
operation will mask off four border pixels from
the selected bitmap. 
This is used to make borderless pictures of layers.
.sp 
The
.I halt
operation allows you to halt an active layer before printing.
This item will only appear if you choose a layer other than
the dmdps layer.
.I
The
.I run
operation restores the layer.
.ll +.5i
.in -.5i
.sp
Anything you do to an on-screen bitmap, such as reversing its video
or halting its associated process, will be restored 
after the layers image has been spooled in memory, or when
you select a new bitmap.
.SH OTHER FEATURES
.I dmdps 
reads its host stdin looking for work for the printer -
.I dmdpr 
forwards its own stdin to the xt device of the most
recently loaded 
.I dmdps 
process. 
Thus
.I dmdps 
and 
.I dmdpr 
work together to
form a host pipeline sink. Any kind of data suitable
for the dmd attached printer can be sent down the sink -
including formatted bitmap images, plain ascii text, and
printer-specific escape sequences.
.PP
.I dmdps 
also looks to see if anything is typed at the keyboard
while it it selected. If so, the keyboard input is sent to
the attached printer. This is a easy way to test a printer
connection, to jot down phone numbers, or to send printer escape
codes to change print modes.
.SH OPTIONS
The following command line options are understood by
.I dmdps:
.TP
.BI -P
This tells 
.I dmdps 
to use Kaplan's parallel
centronics port board. This option should be used only if the 
board is attached, otherwise your terminal may crash. 
.sp
When using this board you will want to have your printer
powered off if the 
.I dmdps 
driver is not running. 
Powering on your terminal with the board installed and the 
printer turned on will hang the terminal with a message about
a stray interrupt. Turn off the printer and try again.
.TP
.BI -c " pipe command"
command to be piped to if the 
.I "pipe bitmap" 
menu item is selected. If present, this item must appear last.
.TP
.BI -f " file name"
name of file to put bitmap in if the 
.I "write bitmap" 
menu item is selected.
(Defaults to BLITMAP.)
.TP
.BI -T " printer type"
type of printer to format bitmap for if the 
.I "print bitmap" 
menu item is selected.
The dmdps shell script has built-in printer formatting descriptions (pfd's)
for at least the following printers:
hpink.epson (Thinkjet in Epson mode), 
8510b (C.Itoh 8510b), 
t5310 (Teletype 5310 w/old ROMs), 
t5310aab (Teletype 5310 w/new ROMs), 
rx80 (Epson RX-80), 
or hpink (Thinkjet in native mode.) 
If you present dmdps with a printer name that begins with /, 
dmdps will interpret this as the pfd file name. 
If you ask for the printer type "switches", dmdps will print out the
switch settings for all supported printers.
.TP
.BI -7 | -8 
Selects either a 7 bit byte with odd parity or an 8 bit byte with
even parity for output over the 5620 DMD serial printer port.
(defaults to 7 bits for the T5300 and HPink printers, 
and 8 bits for the others.)
.TP
.BI -9600 | -4800 | -1200
Selects data output rate for the 5620 DMD serial printer port.
(defaults to 9600 bps for the HPink, 4800 bps for the others.)
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
dmdps -T switches
.PP
The above command will cause dmdps to print out the switch settings
for all supported printers.
.sp
dmdps -P -Thpink
.PP
The above command loads the parallel port version
of the dmdps program, and initializes the formatter 
for HP inkjet output.
.sp 2
dmdps -c "dmdscale -h 3 -w 3 | i300 -l bitmap -d ihXXX"
.PP
The above command loads dmdps and preloads the 
.I "pipe bitmap" 
menu entry to send bitmaps to the Imagen 8/300 printer 
at rje destination ihXXX.
.sp 2
dmdps -c "dmdfmt -p | lpr -b"
.PP
The above command loads dmdps with
.I "pipe bitmap"
preloaded to send bitmaps to a printronix printer.
.sp 2
dmdps -c "dmdfmt -e | dmdpr -u root"
.PP
The above command preloads the "pipe bitmap"
command to format a bitmap for an Epson printer
and forward it to user root's attached DMD printer.
.sp 2
dmdps -T rx80 -f ${HOME}/.bitmap
.PP
The above command will default the print bitmap format to
the Epson RX-80, and will default the output file name to
${HOME}/.bitmap.
.sp 2
dmdpr < file
.PP
The above command will print the file if dmdps is running.
.PP
.I dmdps
runs only under
.IR layers (1).
.SH "FILES"
.ta \w'${HOME}/rje/.prtty    'u
${HOME}/rje	this directory must allow write permission to "all".
.br
${HOME}/rje/.prtty	xt-tty of dmdps process.
.SH "BUGS"
You cannot use the 
.I "pipe bitmap" 
option to send a bitmap to the
host, format it, and send it back to the terminal all in one step.
You can 
.I "write bitmap" 
first, and later format and download it.
The printer port on the 5620 DMD is write-only and cannot
perform any kind of handshaking with the attached printer.
This precludes the ability to do flow-control. This
software attempts to patch around this problem, but does so
at the expense of printing speed. When running the printer
port at 9600 bps, all requests to ring the bell will be sent
to the printer port. If this happens during bitmap output,
the picture will get mangled.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "dmdfmt(1), dmdscale(1), dmdpr(1), layers(1)."
