.\" 
.\"									
.\"	Copyright (c) 1987,1988,1989,1990,1991,1992   AT&T		
.\"			All Rights Reserved				
.\"									
.\"	  THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T.		
.\"	    The copyright notice above does not evidence any		
.\"	   actual or intended publication of such source code.		
.\"									
.\" 
.TH DMDPR 1 "EXPTOOLS - DMD"
.SH NAME
dmdpr \- pipeline sink for 5620 DMD / 630 MTG attached pritners
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I dmdpr
[-t]
[-u username]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Dmdpr
is a UNIX\*(Tm system program that takes its standard input and sends it
the printer port of a particular user's 5620 DMD/630 MTG.
To use
.I dmdpr,
.I dmdps
must be running under 
.I layers 
in the terminal.
.I Dmdpr 
will ensure that the 
.I dmdps
process is running and that the printer is not in use
before downloading any data.
.TP
.BI -u " username"
Login name of user whose printer you wish to use.
(Defaults to $LOGNAME.)
.TP
.BI -t 
causes 
.I dmdpr 
to act as a tee, outputting to both stdout and the printer.
.PP
Anything can be sent down the dmdpr pipeline including
printer-specific escape sequences and formatted bitmap images.
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
dmdpr < file
.PP
The above command will print the file on
the terminal-attached printer.
.sp
pr -e -n\\  file | dmdpr
.PP
The above command will expand tabs and print line numbers
on the listing. A popular command line for the HP inkjet.
.sp 
cat makefile | dmdpr -u schnable
.PP
The above command will print the makefile on
schnable's DMD-attached printer.
.sp
hrdcpy `cat $HOME/rje/.prtty`

.PP
The above command will cause all typed commands 
and all the output produced to be logged on the DMD-attached printer.
.I Hrdcpy
is an exptool.
.SH FILES
${HOME}/rje/.prtty		contains xt-tty of active dmdps process.
.PP
${HOME}/rje/.lck		contains $LOGNAME of current user.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "dmdps(1), dmdscale(1), dmdfmt(1), hrdcpy(1x), tail(1), pr(1)."
